[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In history of the UFO, a
lot was going on in the summer
of 1948.
Everyone talks about
Roswell in 1947,
but the following
summer, 1948, there
was a lot happening in
the whole story of UFOs.
And one of the things
that, to me, is just
an amazing development
that you really never hear
anyone talking about
is the fact that we
know that President
Harry Truman began
receiving quarterly
briefings on UFOs,
and those quarterly
briefings lasted
for the rest of his entire
presidency, which lasted,
by the way, until January 1953.
We're talking four
and a half years.
Quarterly briefings for
four and a half years,
by my calculation, that's
about 18 briefings,
and wouldn't you
loved to have been
a fly on the wall for those.
Well, how do we know
that this happened?
That's a good question.
Well, back in 1974, there
was an Air Force general
who was being
interviewed as part
of what was called an oral
history interview project out
of the University of California.
And this general's name
was Robert B. Landry.
Turns out that Robert
Landry, back in 1948,
was a Colonel for
the US Air Force
and was selected to be Harry
Truman, President Harry
Truman's Air Force liaison.
And basically, that
meant that Landry
would talk to the Air
Force on behalf of Truman,
get information for
Truman from the Air Force,
and that type of thing.
So in the summer of
1948, during the period
of the infamous Estimate
of the Situation
when that was being written,
when Air Force analysts are
talking about this
whole phenomenon
being potentially
interplanetary, all of that
was going on.
And Landry is summoned
to Harry Truman's office
in the summer of 1948.
And what was the
situation there?
The situation was UFOs.
What did Harry Truman want?
Harry Truman directed
Colonel Landry
to coordinate with
Central Intelligence, that
is the CIA, to get and analyze
UFO reports for Harry Truman's
benefit.
Wow, Harry Truman was a
busy guy back in 1948.
He was a busy guy
in 1949 and in 1950
when the Korean War
broke out, and all
for the rest of his
presidency, and yet he's
taking the time out
of that busy schedule
to be formally briefed on
UFOs every three months.
I'm just like wow.
That's a wow moment.
I'm going to read to you what
Landry actually said here,
and by the way, during this
oral history interview,
most of this interview that
this interviewer was conducting
was not just standard
types of stuff
like what was Landry doing
during the Great Berlin
airlift of 1948, and what was
Landry doing during this thing
and during that thing.
And then at the very
end of the interview,
this interviewer says, hey, what
about flying saucers and UFOs?
You ever get anything
to do with that?
And you can really see that
this catches Landry off guard,
but he talks about it.
And this is what he says.
I was called one afternoon
to come to the Oval Office.
The president wanted to see me.
We talked about UFO
reports, and what
might be the meaning
for all these
rather way-out
reports of sightings,
and the subject in general.
The president said he hadn't
given much serious thought
to all these reports,
but at the same time,
he said, if there was any
evidence of a strategic threat
to the National Security,
the collection and evaluation
of UFO data by Central
Intelligence warranted
more intense study and attention
at the highest government
level.
I was directed to
report quarterly
to the president after
consulting with Central
Intelligence people
as to whether or not
any UFO incidents
received by them
could be considered as having
any strategic threatening
implications at all.
The report was to be made orally
by me, unless it was considered
by intelligence to be so serious
or alarming as to warrant
a more detailed
report in writing.
During the four and a
half years in office
there, all reports
were made orally.
Nothing of substance considered
credible or threatening
to the country was ever
received from intelligence.
So a couple of things
to take away from this.
One, Landry is
trying to downplay
the significance of all this.
But, A, let's just stick
to the fundamentals here.
First of all, he's giving
quarterly briefings
on UFOs to President
Harry Truman.
Something that doesn't
appear anywhere
in Truman's two volumes
of memoirs if you go
bother to read through that.
No flying saucers
in those books.
No flying saucer references in
any biography of Harry Truman.
Why not?
How is it not interesting
that Harry Truman
is getting UFO briefings every
three months from his Air Force
liaison?
You tell me.
That's very interesting.
Secondly, here's what
Landry is saying:
he's working with
the CIA to analyze
UFO reports for the president.
Back in the 40s and
50s, there were claims
that the CIA was
involved in UFO reports,
but the CIA denied it for
years and years and years.
But here we have a very, very
strong statement that, oh, yes,
CIA definitely was collecting
UFO reports in 1948.
How about that?
And the other thing that
Landry said that I always
thought was interesting
is he was like, well,
these were not important enough
so all the reports were oral.
Well, there was an old
statement by a former director
of the CIA, Richard Helms.
Helms always said
the best way to keep
a secret is nothing on paper.
When I look at all of
these factors put together,
it seems to me that we've
got some really significant
information here.
Now, at the time Landry
gave his interview in 1974,
Harry Truman had
passed on already,
and he wasn't around
for anyone to follow up
with any other questions
about his UFO briefings.
That's too bad.
We surely would have liked
to have gotten a statement
from the former
president on that,
although I have a feeling he
probably wouldn't have been
talking very much about it.
One thing that's
very obvious is this
is not a subject that
presidents are really
meant to be talking
openly and candidly about.
If presidents were
allowed to talk about it,
well, then Truman probably
would have mentioned it
in his memoirs, wouldn't he?
But he didn't.
It's a huge omission
in the story of one
of the most important presidents
in recent American history.
Harry Truman was very important
for many of the things
that he did, and it's
just like this missing
part of our history.
It's this big gap.
You've got this significant
phenomenon going on.
Everyone at the top
wanted to know about it,
and no one writes about it.
When you consider that Landry
is saying nothing of importance
was said in all those
four and a half years,
I really have to
wonder about that.
UFO researchers have found
numerous incredible sightings
of unknown objects over
very sensitive places
throughout that entire four
and a half year period.
There's no way that Landry
would have just said,
oh, no, nothing to
this at all, boss.
Are you kidding me?
There were sightings in 1948, in
'49 over nuclear installations.
Places like Oak
Ridge, Tennessee,
or the Hanford Nuclear Plant
in the state of Washington
in 1950, or many
sightings over Los Alamos
in the late 40s and early 50s.
All of which-- all of which
got very serious attention
and concern by local
military commanders,
by military scientists who
had these long, extended
conferences in the case of Los
Alamos over what was going on.
In the case of sightings
over the Hanford Nuclear
facility in summer of
1950, there is a memo
that we now have that said
local commanders are perturbed
by the implications
of the sighting.
Yeah, the sighting of round
objects, numerous round
objects, hanging out over
the Hanford plant in 1950
while Air Force interceptors
attempted in vain
to go after these
things and to get them.
They couldn't keep up with them
where squadrons were on alert,
anti-aircraft
battalions were alerted.
All of this going on in
1950 and in 1951 and in 1952
where you've got UFOs
over the capital.
A situation in which Landry
spoke to Captain Edward
Ruppelt of Project Blue Book.
And Ruppelt, in
his memoirs, later
said, oh, yes, I
learned that Truman
was on the line listening
to the conversation.
So there's a lot going on here
with Harry Truman and these UFO
reports that he was
getting from Landry.
And it's just always
been one of those things
where I just would love to be
able to get my own little time
machine, go back, and just
listen in on what were probably
some fascinating, oral briefings
made by Colonel Robert B.
Landry, later General
Robert B. Landry,
to the President of the United
States, Harry S. Truman.
A missing part of our history
that shouldn't be missing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]